---
title: "Supercomputing SC25"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2025-11-16-SC25
venue: "America's Center Convention Complex"
date: 2025-11-16
location: "St. Louis, MO"
---

This year at Supercomputing I will have two main talks.
I gave a talk at the [1st Annual Workshop on Large Scale Quantum-Classical Computing](https://large-scale-quantum-classical-computing.github.io/lsqcc/), titled "QC-HPC Systems for the Quantum Advantage Era​" giving an overview of Pasqal's QPU, applications in material science and our HPC-QC work.
And another talk on "Towards a user-centric HPC-QC environment" at the [1st International Workshop on Software Frameworks and Workload Management for Quantum and HPC Ecosystems](https://sfwqhe.github.io/sfwm-qhpce/).
The accompanying paper is available [in the workshop proceedings](https://dl.acm.org/doi/full/10.1145/3731599.3767549).

Here the topic will be on our vision and progress on the user execution environment for hybrid jobs.
Crucially, I will argue of the need to improve the ability to execute and test programs and workflows in multiple environments.
Currently I see many bugs appear as end-users move from local development, to HPC powered emulation and real QPU jobs, slowing down progress and preventing the scarce QPU resources of being used optimally.

I will also discuss our upcoming scheduling design, and  overall HPC-QC integration architecture.

The abstract of the talk submitted was:
> Robust execution environments for quantum computing can aid the industry with key challenges like application development, portability, and reproducibility, and help unlock the development of more modular quantum program, driving forward hybrid quantum workflows.
> In this work, we show progress towards a basic, but portable, runtime environment for developing and executing hybrid quantum-classical programs running in High Performance Computing (HPC) environments enhanced with Quantum Processing Units (QPUs).
> The middleware includes a second layer of scheduling after the main HPC resource manager in order to improve the utilization of the QPU, and extra functionality for observability, monitoring, and admin access.
> We show how this allows us to manage several programming Software Development Kits (SDKs) as first-class citizens in the environment by building on a recently proposed vendor-neutral Quantum Resource Management Interface (QRMI).
> Lastly, we discuss and show a solution for the monitoring and observability stack, completing our description of the hybrid system architecture.

